# SIMBA
Disasters may strike any given place without warning. Our project has borrowed inspiration from a disaster that occurred in Uttarakhand back in 2013, where a flash flood striked which resulted in massive destruction, loss of life and left thousands of people stranded. Millions have also suffered in this country with a contrasting condition,i.e. drought. Prevention and management of natural
disasters thus becomes critical and necessary. Two modules have been explored in this project: Prevention of droughts and effective management of natural disasters such as floods, earthquakes and cyclones.

Drought prediction will be monitored using an apparatus composed of a NodeMCU development board interfaced with SparkFun Soil Moisture Sensor for analysing moisture content which will be in connection with Azure IoT Central and will be monitored. We are using this setup as it is very cost-effective and it can be easily installed. Thus, droughts can be predicted with the aid of both live soil moisture composition and weather condition and effective measures can be taken in view of its severity. 

Quite a few methods exist for prediction of floods but prevention is a far-fetched idea. Therefore, this project focuses more on management of floods than prevention. In our perspective, management can be made effective by breaking it down to three modules, all with the motive to optimize location tracing and receptive measures. Foremost, after the onset of a flood, calamity victims try to hide in safe places where tracking them proposes a difficulty. Time taken for predicting the location of such victims may vary and cause loss of lives. To facilitate location tracking, live satellite images of high altitude can be used to analyse the affected areas. By doing image processing using Azure Computer Vision API, identification of the areas which require urgent assistance, also known as heat maps, and provide relief to victims. 

Secondly, during natural disasters, cellular network is lost which makes communication difficult. Victims are unable to notify concerned centres about their locations and their situations, due to which help is either delayed or not provided. To ensure communication gap between help centres and victims is bridged, a message is circulated between rescue team devices having a pre-installed app wherein live location sharing and update happens over cloud. Although Internet connectivity might not be available for every victim’s smartphone, we rather build WLANs where every rescuer is connected to a central device over that network. The device  receives all the requests and sends the location data to the Azure IoT Hub. This hub relays the data through a Stream Analytics Job to the Azure Power BI which is used as a sink for this data. Thus, an efficient and optimum management system is developed for the disaster-struck area - the app combining live data from the modules with updates of location and state of affected areas nearby, maximising resource utilisation. 

The third management module is the helpline management system. Helpline numbers usually receive a variety of calls, and there may be thousands of calls every day, which subdues reception of urgent calls from victims, which need to have first priority. If the victim is able to give the location and condition clearly to the helpline, machine learning can be used to analyse the call- where the audio is converted into text using the Azure speech to text API and this text is analysed by Azure Text Analytics API to check if call is coming from a genuine victim, and if there is vital information about the condition and is stored. Sentimental analysis is done on the voice which is used to analyse the priority of the call.
 

